WorldStage Newsonline– Paga, a mobile money operator licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria has recorded triple digit growth in some key operational metrics as it targets to make its platform available to 1 billion persons for money transfers across the world. The emerging markets payments company founded on April 3 2009 offers a range of services including free money transfers, deposit to bank accounts, buying/sending of airtime, bill payments, remittances, bulk disbursements & collections that are accessible via our online channels (web/app) and on any basic mobile phone via dialing *242#. Speaking at a virtual Media Roundtable in Lagos, Paga’s Co-Founder, Jay Alabraba said the company with 453 employees, four of which are in Mexico and 46 in Ethiopia, recorded 700% quarterly growth in user signups, 200% increase in monthly volumes for self transacting individuals, 354% increase in monthly net revenue for self transacting individuals and 260% increase in sellers. Other growth milestones he mentioned include 27,273 agents accounts (up 11% from 2019), 70%  month by month retention of active self transacting individuals while updates to its mobile app had been very well received as the app achieved a 4.5 rating in the Google Play Store. On the progress made so far, he said the emerging global brand  is now “the largest distribution network for financial services in Nigeria through its nationwide agent network – mom and pop stores, pharmacies, grocery stores – where people can get access to financial services. “We are solving two key problems that exist around the world – eliminating the use of cash for transactions and access to financial services. “We exist to create an ecosystem that enables people to digitally send and receive money, and deliver financial services to everyone.” Speaking the operation model of the company which he said was governed by collaboration, ownership, result oriented, integrity and innovation, he said the company’s investment in learning & development had boosted job confidence and mutual respect for team members. “In 2020, we introduced opportunities for employees to show themselves as subject matter experts who contribute to the development of their own knowledge and skills sets while also empowering other team members from their wealth of knowledge across Paga,” he said. With 27,327 agents base and each employing average of three people, he said the company had successfully established a well trusted and known brand – earning the trust and confidence of people and the network. “The sense of identification with the brand is further underlined by the model of monthly payment of commissions as it gives them that sense of working in an office environment; some of the agents referring to themselves as Paga staff (that sense of belonging),” he said. “Above all is the empowerment that the Paga model has enabled them with opportunity to contribute, provide employment and business expansion that make them – the Agents – honoured members of their communities.” On the company’s impact on the community, he said it was committed to make life possible by empowering its communities and applying the expertise of at its disposal, philanthropic capital and technology to deliver commercially sustainable social impact at scale. “Our impact on our communities is guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) materiality,” he said. “Our community encompasses key stakeholder groups that present us with the opportunity to make life possible; this include our: Agent Network, People: Customers, Employees (present & future).” On its  impact on people, he said the company was committed to make life possible for people by encouraging decent work, diversity & inclusion in the workplace – with over 50% of workforce and leadership being women; encouraging learning and development opportunities; and providing opportunity for diversity and inclusion in education, especially for the Girl Child. On the future, he said, Paga was founded on the simple belief that digital technology can be leveraged in building an ecosystem that enables people to digitally send and receive money and offer simple financial access for everyone. “We aim to accomplish our purpose by launching our services in various emerging markets and partnering with relevant financial institutions to deliver our services,” he said.