Leading telecommunications services provider, Airtel Nigeria, has announced its sponsorship of leading international singing competition, ‘The Voice Nigeria Season 3’, which is scheduled to premiere on Saturday, March 27, 2021. The music competition, which launched in Nigeria in 2016, aims to discover and nurture new talents, offering them a credible platform to be positioned at the forefront of the country’s music industry, whilst preparing them for the global stage. Music lovers will be able to watch the show live on Airtel TV by 8pm on Saturdays and Sundays. The Airtel TV app, which is available on Android and iOS, is subscription-free and offers registered users unlimited access to live TV, news and the entire Airtel TV content library. Commenting on Airtel’s sponsorship, Chief Commercial Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Dinesh Balsingh, expressed delight at the company’s drive to contribute to the growth of the Nigerian music industry through resourceful partnerships that will not only help groom and nurture local talents but also offer them a platform to international stardom. “Airtel is delighted to return as a sponsor of‘The Voice Nigeria Season 3,’ which has grown, over the past two seasons, to become one of the most watched television programmes in Africa. This sponsorship is a glowing testimony to Airtel’s passion and commitment to empower and invest in young, talented Nigerians and also offer them a strong platform to showcasetheir talent to the world. “Airtel remains committed to supporting the Nigerian music industry, which is making waves globally by connecting with hearts and souls not just across Nigeria, but across the world.” he added. This highly anticipated season 3 of The Voice Nigeriawill be produced for the first time in Nigeria in partnership with UN1TY Limited and Livespot360. The show’s innovative format features four stages-beginning with the Blind Auditions, followed by the Knockouts, then the Battle Rounds and, finally, the Live Performance Shows. The coaches of the show, Darey, Yemi Alade, Waje and Falz will seek twelve talents for their teams and work with them during the show to hone their skills and prepare the successful acts who make it to the Live Performance Shows to battle it out on a global stage. The season will be hosted by award-winning TV host, Nancy Isime alongside popular On-Air Personality (OAP) and Entrepreneur, Toke Makinwa. Talents and fans will go home with over N100,000,000 in prizes, with the Winning Talent of The Voice Nigeria Season 3 walking away with a monetary reward, a brand-new car, and an international recording contract.