Gowon retires as board chairman WorldStage Newsonline– Notore Chemical Industries Plc, the first indigenous Urea Fertiliser producer in Sub-Saharan Africa, including South Africa has announced the stepping down of Mr. Onajite Okoloko as the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and appointment of Mr. Ohis Ohiwerei as his successor. The company in a notification to the Nigerian Stock Exchange also confirmed the retirement of General Dr. Yakubu Gowon, GCFR as a Non-Executive Director and chairs the Board of the Company and retirement of Mr. Richard Herb  as a Non-Executive Director . General Dr. Yakubu Gowon was Nigeria’s Head of State and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces from 1966 to 1975. He is a doctorate degree holder in Political Science, which he obtained from the University of Warwick in 1984. General Gowon has spent the past three decades providing leadership for projects designed to promote peace and progress in Nigeria and also internationally. General Gowon was the immediate past Chairman of IGI Plc, one of the largest insurance companies in Nigeria and additionally, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Safa Group of Companies. He is also Chairman, Nigeria Prays and Patron of the Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN). He joined the Board of Notore Chemical Industries Plc. on 7 th February 2007. His retirement from the Board of the Company is effective from 28th January 2021. Okoloko is said to be steping down as the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Notore effective from 31st January 2021. In 2005, he assembled a team of investors to acquire the assets of the former NAFCON and as a core investor, partnered with a consortium that included Emerging Capital Partners, a major private equity firm out of Washington, U.S.A, and OCI Fertilizers BV, owned by the Orascom Group. He later successfully led the completion of the largest single loan syndication of Nigerian banks at the time, when Notore raised US$222 million from 7 Nigerian financial institutions. Mr. Okoloko was one of the founding partners of the Ocean & Oil Group, which was incorporated in 1994. He was the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Oando Energy Services, an integrated oil service subsidiary of Oando, from 1994 to 2006. He is currently the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Eroton Exploration & Production Limited and Mid-Western Oil & Gas Company Limited. He will remain on the Board of the Company as a non Executive Director. Mr. Richard HerbMr. Richard Herb is a veteran in the fertiliser industry having commenced his career with International Minerals Corp. Illinois, USA in 1970 where he obtained extensive knowledge of production of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium Fertilisers. In 1985, he was appointed Managing Director of International Ore and Fertiliser in Brussels, Belgium, a division of Occidental Petroleum Corporation and worked closely with the National Fertiliser Company of Nigeria (“NAFCON”) for a period of 10 years, handling the export of 2 million tons of Granular Urea production to world markets as well as supplying raw materials for production of NPK. Mr. Herb is a Director of the British Council for Africa. He holds a number of directorships in Nigeria and the U.K. He joined Notore’s Board on 23rd January 2006 and his retirement is effective from 28th January 2021. Ohiwerei Mr. Ohis Ohiwerei before his appointment as the Group Managing Director/CEO on 1st February 2021, was an Executive Director and the Deputy Managing Director of the Company responsible for the day-to-day operations and enhancing efficiency levels across the business with a focus on improving profitability and effecting the development and growth strategy of the business. Prior to joining the Company on 17th September 2018, he served in executive capacities in Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and Diamond Bank Plc. Mr. Ohiwerei was engaged as the Chief Financial Officer of Diamond Bank Plc and later became Executive Director, Corporate Banking of Diamond Bank Plc from 2005 – 2010. In October 2011, he was appointed as an Executive Director of Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, where he was responsible for Commercial Banking and Public Sector, Lagos Division for four years, until his retirement from the Bank in October, 2015. Mr. Ohiwerei holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree from the University of Benin and a Master of Business Administration degree from the same institution. He has attended various courses and seminars locally and internationally including the Advanced Strategic Management program at IMD, Switzerland and an Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School. Mr Ohiwerei becomes the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Company, succeeding Mr. Okoloko. Mr. Ebiaho Emafo – Chief Operating Officer/Executive Director Mr. Ebiaho Emafo joins the Notore Board as an Executive Director and the Chief Operating Officer. With over 25 years of progressive global experience driving positive bottom-line results for companies (local, international, public and private) by providing overall strategic vision and leadership, his focus is on financial development, staff development, and organizational excellence. Mr. Emafo has worked in various capacities in his professional career, playing key executive management roles in Lafarge S.A.; Celtel and Zain International in the Netherlands and East Africa respectively; Airtel in Ghana and the United Nations in New York, USA. Mr. Emafo was the immediate past Managing Director of Eroton Exploration & Production Limited. Other roles he has held include Head, Purchasing at Total Upstream and Project Officer at the UN Peace Forces. He possesses a unique combination of two Graduate Business Degrees. An MSc in Supply Chain Management & Logistics from Cranfield University, UK and an MBA from University of Wales, College of Cardiff, UK with other Executive Management courses at Oxford University, Colorado School of Mines, London Business School and Stanford University. His appointment takes effect from 1 st February 2021. Mr. Tijjani St. James – Chief Commercial Officer The role of the Chief Commercial Officer has been created to replace the existing Group Head, Commercial Services role in light of the expanded commercial activities which include not only the Company’s traditional Urea sales, but also the newly introduced Notore NPK fertilizers marketing, sales and distribution; Notore Seeds and the Notore Rice initiative. As the Company moves forward with the integrated agriculture strategy, the Chief Commercial Officer will be tasked with the responsibility of driving these initiatives as they transit from the incubation phase to commercial operations. Mr. Tijjani St. James, the erstwhile Group Head, Commercial Services became the Chief Commercial Officer, effective 1st February 2021. Mr. St. James obtained an MBA with a major in Marketing in 2010 from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He also holds a Post Graduate Diploma in Management Sciences from Bayero University, Kano and a Higher National Diploma in Business Administration and Management from Kaduna Polytechnic, Kaduna. Mr. St. James is a member of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria. He has held various commercial roles at different managerial levels across foremost multinational companies including British American Tobacco, Guinness, GlaxoSmithKline, PZ Cussons and P&G’s distributor operations in North-West Nigeria.