…celebrates death of Madam Adaramaja, says her spirit lingers on Oyo State Governor, “Seyi Makinde, has reiterated the call for South West integration, adding that political or religious affiliations should not constitute barriers. The governor, who stated this at the funeral thanksgiving service of Madam Aderonke Adaramaja, held at Christ Apostolic Church, Oke Agbo, Ijebu Igbo, Ogun State, on Friday, said that the people of South West must always seek for better integration of the zone by considering what unites them rather than what divides the region. He promised to further work for better synergy between the people of Oyo State and Ogun State, adding that he would consider the construction of the 11-kilometre road that links Akanran to Ijebu Igbo. He stated that although he never met Mama Aderonke Adaramaja when she was alive, he was convinced she lived a godly life, having seen the traits in one of mama’s Children, Mr Babatunde Adaramaja, who happens to be his friend. Governor Makinde, who prayed to God to grant repose to the soul of the deceased, admonished the family to take solace in God, adding that Madam Aderonke should be celebrated and not be mourned. He said: “Though I did not have a personal interaction with Mama, I can say that she was a good woman and I pray that God will accept her soul. We have come to celebrate the life of Mama because we appreciate God for the kind of life she lived. If you look at the life of the children and everyone that Mama left behind, you will see that God richly blessed Mama. “I can see that today is more of a celebration than mourning because God has been gracious unto Mama. So, you children Mama left behind, I want to urge you not to be afraid. “When you wake up in the morning, go on your knees and thank God because I believe her spirit will linger on. “When we came in here, a pastor said he is not a politician but I want to say that I am not also a pastor but I know politicians and pastors are from the same environment. Our politicians and churches are a reflection of our society. So, if you want better politicians, better infrastructure, better pastors as well, we have to create a better society. And the perfect way to ensure that is, whatever anyone of us can do to make our society better must be done. “Yes, it is true and I want to beseech us not to focus on those things that tend to divide us. We should rather focus on things that will bring us together. And as a government, we will make sure that whatever we can do to integrate Yorubaland and South West will be done.” Earlier in his sermon, Rev Simeone Durojaye of Overcomers Baptist Church, Agbara, Ogun State, who described the deceased as a true lover of Christ, charged the congregation to always live holy. The funeral thanksgiving service for late Mrs. Adaramaja was graced by some distinguished personalities. Dignitaries included the Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin; some commissioners, and other political and government functionaries from Oyo State. Madam Aderonke Adaramaja, who passed on at the age of 79 years, was survived by her husband, children, and grandchildren.