WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC)  has said that  it’s in the final stage of issuing a regulation on electronic waste and believes improper disposal of ICT-plastic waste embedded products could have grave implications on public health. NCC, Executive Vice Chairman Prof. Umar Danbatta said at a world press conference  while commemorating with the 2021 World Consumer Right Day, with the theme ‘Tackling Plastic Pollution’ that the improper disposal of such disused ICT-plastic embedded products have grave implication on public health, and especially in achieving Goals 11, 12 and 13 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030. According to him, “Activities and actions slated for this commemoration are to raise awareness and engage state and non-state actors on the global plastic pollution crisis. This is coming THREE years after the NCC drafted the Nigerian communications industry e-waste regulations in 2018. “The objective of the Regulation is to manage E-Waste; promote reuse, recycling and other forms of recovery; improve environmental management system of operators in the telecom industry; and reduce greenhouse emissions as well as enhance sustainable development efforts.” Prof. Danbatta, lamented on the recurrent cycle of fraudulent deployment of fake and substandard mobile devices, usually made of iron and plastic components, he added that the commission has collaborated with the Office of the National Security Adviser and other relevant government agencies to inaugurate a committee to implement Mobile Devices Management Systems (DMS). He said, “This initiative is designed as a Public-Private Partnership aimed at combating the proliferation of fake, counterfeit, substandard and cloned communication devices in the telecommunications industry. The expected result of this initiative is that, only genuine materials malleable to enduring usage are available for consumer use. “The Commission also implemented a strict type-approval process that ensures all equipment used in the telecommunications industry are of a suitable standard, both for the good of the consumers and for the preservation of our environment. “The commission have in place a very tight approval process, all handset must be type approved before they imported into the country. There is no way NCC will approve importation of substandard devices, because this device will be found below acceptable substandard in terms of their performance.” During the event was also the unveiling of a new consumer handbook by the EVC, a compendium of consumer information materials compiled to enhance education and protection of the consumer. He said, “In keeping with global best practice of digital public communication for information and complaints management, the Commission continued to leverage social media platforms of Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube, to inform and educate consumers and to use them as complaints channels for the Commission.” In addition, he explained that the NCC Consumer Web Portal serves as an alternative online channel for lodging complaints and making enquiries. He said, “The specially created toll free number 622 and DND short code 2442, are as active as ever. They are emplaced respectively to enable consumers to escalate unresolved complaints earlier reported to service providers, and to manage unsolicited messages. Just last month, we provided evidence that “NCC’s DND crashes unsolicited SMS by 96.6% in three years. “Also, the results we are getting through the NCC Toll-free Number 622 has been phenomenal. Thousands of complaints have been received from consumers and escalated by the Commission to service providers for quick resolution to the satisfaction of affected consumers. “In our latest report, of the 11,327 genuine consumer complaints received through the 622 between 2019 and 2020, 11,288 which translate to 99.1%, have been successfully resolved.”