In its continuing quest to bring convenience to its loyal fans, HUAWEI Mobile Services has partnered with MTN to bring an easy, seamless and secure new payment method onboard. Now you can make purchases in all your favourite HUAEWI Mobile Services, including HUAWEI AppGallery, HUAWEI Video, HUAWEI Music, HUAWEI Themes, and HUAWEI Mobile Cloud, using your MTN airtime. Direct Carrier Billing (DCB), as it is called, allows users to make purchases using their airtime. For contract customers, the amount will be added to their monthly mobile phone bill, while prepaid customers will have the amount deducted directly from their available airtime. This means you can still pay for all your favourite offerings from HUAWEI Mobile Services without having to share your credit card details. DCB is another way HUAWEI provides a smart, simple, convenient, and secure way for customers to pay for services using their devices. The value of each DCB transaction is capped at R500. Adam Xiao, managing director of Huawei Mobile Services in the Middle East and Africa, Huawei Consumer Business Group says, “At HUAWEI, our users are at the heart of everything we do and we are constantly looking at ways to increase their overall experience with our products. I am excited about this DCB partnership with MTN, as this new additional method of online payment is not only hassle free, but also so much more convenient. With in-app billing, HUAWEI AppGallery users are able to purchase additional content or features such as bonus levels or special characters on their favourite games, subscriptions to some of our exciting products and purchases in other apps.” Ernst Fonternel, MTN SA’s Chief Digital Officer says, “MTN recently reached 100 million active data customers across 21 countries in Africa and the Middle East. This shows that our customers are increasingly adopting digital offerings and we are continuously looking to meet this demand with fresh offerings that will add value to our customers. We are proud to partner with HUAWEI to offer our customers the simplicity of purchasing from the various HUAWEI Mobile Services with Prepaid Airtime or Postpaid Add to Bill. As we continue to roll out our 5G network, we believe that the demand for smarter apps will increase and we want to ensure that our customers enjoy the benefits of a modern connected life in an easy, convenient and safe way.” The DCB service on HUAWEI devices will first be available on the MTN network from the 10th of March, and then will be rolled out later to other networks. The billing service offers customers a multitude of benefits, including:  With how convenient DCB is, MTN customers with HUAWEI can now start paying directly for their in-app purchases by clicking here.