…to set up committee on amicable resolution of leadership crisis Oyo State Governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, on Thursday met with leaders of market men and women in the state, declaring that he was ready to put in place policies to boost economic growth. The governor, who stated this at an event held at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, added that he would continue to pursue programmes and policies that will make life comfortable for everyone. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as saying that he would go ahead to set up a committee to explore options on the amicable resolution of the recent crisis surrounding the leadership positions of the markets. Governor Makinde, who expressed his desire for unity among market men and women in the state, said that his administration would sit with all stakeholders to find a lasting solution to the existing misunderstanding. He equally acknowledged the role played by market leaders during his campaign for the governorship in 2015 and 2019, urging them to learn a lesson from his life and submit to the will of God on market leadership. He, however, noted that he had already told the Olubadan of Ibadanland that he would not query Kabiyesi’s decision on the leadership of the market, stating, however, that his government would look into requests made by the market leaders and ensure that the right thing is done. He said: “I acknowledge all you did during the electioneering period. We worked tirelessly together in 2014 and 2015 and, now, the will of God has prevailed. I want to tell us that we need to do things according to the will of God. Obviously, we will see to your requests and make sure the right thing is done. “I once told Kabiyesi at his palace that I believe everybody is for me. I also told Kabiyesi that anybody who has been chosen to be in a position of leadership in the market will not be queried by me. “I believe no matter how complex the matter is, we can still sit down and deliberate upon it to find a lasting solution. So, I want a united house because if we do, that is when what should come to us can come.” The governor promised to set up a committee to look into the matter, expressing the belief that the issue will be resolved in no time. “I will set up a committee immediately and I believe this issue will be resolved. But I want to urge you to learn from my personal political experience. I contested to go to the Senate twice but I was denied. In 2019, I prayed that the will of God be done on my gubernatorial ambition and it indeed came to pass. “So, let every one of us always allow the will of God to prevail on the things we do. “Yes, this is your government. We will also do the things that are needful as a government to boost your businesses and make life comfortable for everyone,” he added. While speaking on behalf of the market men and women from all the nooks and crannies of the state, the South-West Coordinator of the National Association of Nigerian Traders, Mrs. Odunayo Danjuma and the Acting Iyaloja of Oyo State, Chief (Mrs.) Justina Ogundoyin, appreciated Governor Makinde for providing loans to traders and artisans in the state. They added that the association will continue to contribute their quota to the development of the state. Mrs. Danjuma appealed to the governor to help in resolving the lingering leadership crisis among the market women and men in the state, with a view to it having an acceptable leadership in the state.