WorldStage Newsonline– ValuAlliance Asset Management Limited, the Fund Manager of the ValuAlliance Value Fund has announced that its Board of Directors had approved the appointment of two additional directors of the Company. In a notification at the Nigerian Stock Exchange, it said the appointment is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s no objection confirmation and a ratification by the shareholders at the Company’s next Annual General Meeting. The new directors of the Company are: Mr. Obinnia Abajue – Independent Non-Executive Director and Mr. Kofi Kwakwa – Non-Executive Director About Mr. Obinnia Abajue Mr. Abajue is the current Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Hygeia HMO Limited which he joined in November 2016. Hygeia HMO Limited is a leading health insurance company in Nigeria. Mr. Abajue has over 23 years experience in banking and financial services. Prior to joining Hygeia HMO, he was based in South Africa and was the Executive in charge of Business Transformation for Standard Bank’s Personal and Business Banking business in Africa. Mr. Abajue previously served in various capacities across the Standard Bank group subsidiaries as the Executive Director and Head of Personal and Business Banking at Stanbic IBTC Bank, Acting Chief Executive Officer of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited and Head of Wealth Management for Stanbic IBTC, overseeing the pensions, asset management and trusteeship businesses. Mr. Abajue holds a Bachelor’s degree in Actuarial Science from the University of Lagos and an MBA from the prestigious Imperial College London. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (FCMA) UK, Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (FCIB), and Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers of Nigeria (FCS). He is also a member of the Institute of Directors of Nigeria (IODN). About Kofi Kwakwa Mr. Kwakwa is a Ghanaian and currently a director at African Capital Alliance Limited (ACA), which he joined in 2015. ACA Limited is a leading investment firm sponsoring funds and managing investments in Africa. Mr. Kwakwa has over 25 years of experience in investments, investment banking and consulting and currently oversees ACA’s Ghana operations and the firm’s regional expansion strategy. Previously, Mr. Kwakwa was Founder and CEO of Sagevest Holdings, an investment holding company in Ghana, where he led notable initiatives, including the establishment of a pioneering nuts and grains processing company in West Africa. Mr. Kwakwa was also Director of strategic investments, joint ventures and alliances at Standard Bank Group, the largest banking group in Africa and a leading emerging markets bank. Prior to joining Standard Bank, Mr. Kwakwa was a Senior Manager at McKinsey & Company where he advised several of Africa’s 50 largest companies on issues ranging from organic international expansion (across Africa and beyond) to mergers & acquisitions and performance turnarounds. Mr. Kwakwa is a Director Emeritus and former Chairman of the Board of Ashesi University, a leading globally recognized and awarded private university in Ghana. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ghana International School, a pioneering international school in Ghana. Mr. Kwakwa holds a B.A. in Mathematics and Economics from Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania, USA and an MBA from Harvard Business School. The Board of Directors congratulates Mr. Abajue and Mr. Kwakwa on their appointment and is looking forward to tapping into their vast wealth of experience to further accelerate the achievement of its vision, “to be the premier investment management fiduciary in the segments we serve”.