WorldStage Newsonline– The Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB) on Friday in Abuja, proffered solutions to the incessant cases of building collapse in the country. The institutes listed among others solutions, the need for the National Assembly to pass the National Building Code and for states to enact laws like the Lagos State Building Inspectorate Law to guide the built environment across the nation. The NIOB Chairman, FCT-Abuja Chapter, Mr Peter Omale, at a news conference and induction of members as part of activities to mark the 2021 Building Day, called for legal backing to prosecute offenders. Omale said that the essence of the commemoration of the Builder’s Day on March 13, was to raise awareness on the need for a standard building production process in Nigeria. He said that it was also a sober reflection of the loss of lives that occurred at the building collapse in Lagos in 2019 at Itafaji, where so many children died and Uyo Church, where many worshipers lost their lives. “It is something that is avoidable if the right things were done, however, because of quacks having their way into the built environment space, these accidents happen. “The NIOB is using this opportunity to draw the attention of the public that this unwarranted loss of lives, resources and also the death of people who would have been future leaders must stop. “It is to this end that we are using the builders’ day to sensitise the public on the need to embrace best practices, ensure that in every building endeavours and real estate they should ensure to engage a registered builder. “If we must build right, if we must build well, it is very important that we engage registered builders in every building project across the nation,” he said. The chairman said that the advocacy of the NIOB Day, the first edition in 2020 brought about the Lagos State Building Inspectorate Law. “Today you will discover that if you go to Lagos state, there is no construction site that activities can take place without the presence of a registered builder. “We want to appreciate the Lagos state government for taking a bold step of ensuring that registered builders are the professionals manning all the construction activities as far as building is concerned in the state,’’ he said. Omale, therefore, appealed to all other state governments across the country to embrace this law and replicate it in their various states. He said that NIOB appealed to the National Assembly through the Minister for Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola to have the building code passed into law. He noted that the bill when passed would create boundary lines for all professionals in the built environment to take up responsibilities and stick to the ethics of the profession. According to him, this will give it the force required to mete out punitive measures when the need arises because the code is like the blood vessel of the country since housing is a social need for everyone. He said that if the nation did not do the right, good and safe houses for citizens to live in, then it was preparing for disasters yet to be discovered. Omlae said that with the code in place, activities of the built environment would be streamlined thereby, closing the gate to quackery and prevent unwarranted people from coming into the built environment space. He urged the NIOB members to be whistleblowers and report whenever they saw something wrong in the built environment space, so action would be taken to avoid building collapse. He said that so far, no registered builder had been indicted in all the building collapse that had occurred in Nigeria because they were guided by the regulation of council of registered builders and the institute of builders. Omale said that there were disciplinary mechanisms put in place by the professional body and those mechanisms were usually deplored where there were infringe on the practices of building and necessary actions were taken. He congratulated all the members being inducted into NIOB and urged them to respect the ethics of the profession and act in accordance with the tenets of the practice of the profession