WorldStage Newsonline– The National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) has commended the professional regulatory safety oversight function performed by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on Azman Air operations. The President of NAAPE, Mr Abednego Galadima, gave the commendation in a statement made available to newsmen in Lagos on Saturday. NAAPE is the umbrella body of pilots and aircraft engineers in the country. The NCAA on March 17 suspended the operations of Azman Air Boeing 737 aircraft with immediate effect, following incidents involving the plane series. The professional group commended NCAA’s professional conduct and equally condemned Azman Air’s response to NCAA’s action. Galadima said: “We, the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), have read with total dismay the unbelievable response of Azman Air to the legitimate and professional regulatory safety oversight function performed by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on its operations. “It is unfortunate that Azman Air chooses to view the action through parochial prism. “The sentiments expressed by the airline are unnecessary and unhelpful to the critical safety issues raised by the authority, given the cited myriads of incontrovertible safety breaches. “Again, to interpret the patriotic NCAA act of ensuring that Nigerian pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers are considered first in employment in line with expatriates quota laws and Executive Order No. 5 as vindictive is to demonstrate disdain for our laws. “We, therefore, commend NCAA under the able leadership of Capt. Musa Nuhu as Director-General and pass a vote of confidence on his stewardship since he assumed office in February 2020.’’ The association called on the aviation community and well-meaning Nigerians to support the regulator in its onerous task of ensuring the safety and security of the airspace and equipment. “We also wish to advise Azman Air to cooperate with the regulatory authority by opening up its books for full safety audit,’’ NAAPE said. It also advised Azman Air to consider the overall interest of the travelling public and Nigeria.