WorldStage Newsonline– The Medical Guild has advised Nigerians to exercise restraint, as the country is using the lessons learnt during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic to defeat the second. The guild Chairman, Dr Oluwajimi Sodipo, gave the advice in a statement on Friday in Lagos. The guild is an association of medical doctors under the employment of the Lagos State government. According to Sodipo, ”now more than ever is the need for citizens to exercise restraint in their activities to reduce the spread of the virus”. He said that the first wave of COVID-19 brought with it unforeseen problems, characterised by fear of the unknown. This, Sodipo said, had led to a large number of infections and deaths as well as economic and social deprivation among the populace, including health care workers. “We were able to emerge from the first wave, using a combination of human kindness, innovation, hope given by spiritual fortitude and the application of science. “The use of personal protective equipment (PPE), social distancing, hand washing, improved testing and contact tracing for SARS COV-2, with resilient work by our health care workers and cooperation of the public, played great roles in achieving success,” he said. The chairman noted that unfortunately, the country was now confronted with the second wave of the SARS-COV-2 pandemic. “This time, the virus seems more vicious with a number of deaths among the elderly and the vulnerable, including health care workers. “The reasons for this surge can be debated, but it is most likely linked to the increasing influx of Nigerians and foreigners from abroad, poor use of social distancing and masks, and general complacency on the effects of the virus,” he said. Sodipo said that in spite the need for celebrations, the use of face masks, social distancing, avoiding large crowds, isolating when sick and presenting to the hospital when symptoms like difficulty in breathing occur must remain in place. He said that the present time called for serious action from the federal and state governments, adding that they must not be weary in implementing measures that would safeguard citizens. “The need for continuous health promotion, strengthening of border controls, testing and isolation of travelers from foreign countries, expanding testing of contacts and ill persons with prompt result notification, and expanding treatment, especially for the vulnerable and ill,” he said. The guild chairman said that government should also ensure social benefits for the most vulnerable and the affected persons. “Healthcare workers, who bear the brunt of infections, should also be prioritised in the provision of personal protective equipment, health and life insurance, and appropriate hazard allowances,” he said. Sodipo expressed members’ readiness to provide necessary care for patients and the populace, while partnering with the government to have home-made solutions to the COVID-19 pandemic, as it affected the country and Lagos, in particular. “Working together, we shall emerge victorious from the second wave as we did the first wave, while enjoying the prosperity that 2021 promises through the grace of God,” he added.