WorldStage Newsonline– The Director General and Chief Executive, Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geosciences (NIMG), Jos, Engr. Prof. Suleiman Bolaji Hassan has said that for the nation’s Mining Road Map to be achieved, there is need for training and re- training of artisanal miners in new and modern methods of mining so as to acquire modern mining techniques and minimize incessant casualties in crude and manual method of mining. As part of the strategies of actualizing the objectives of the present administration aimed at revamping the economy through mining, the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development rolled out what it called Mining Road Map in 2016 which entails formalizing what was initially known as illegal mining to formal/cooperate type which is meant to have legal backing from the government. The NIMG boss said during the opening ceremony of a -5 day training program titled: Basic Mining Methods for Artisanal Miners for youths from Anka/ Marafa and Bakura/Maradin Constituencies in Zamfara State at NIMG, Jos that the issue of illegal or informal mining had been a major factor mitigating the rapid growth of the Mining Sector. Prof. S.B. Hassan reminded the participants that the Federal Government has since 2015 earmarked the Mining Sector as one of the veritable tools to achieve its Economic Diversification Policy. He said that for the mining sector to achieve this herculean task of diversification policy, there is need to sanitize the operations in the extractive industry of the sector hence Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geosciences (NIMG) was established by the Federal Government in 2007 to be a Centre of Excellence in mining skills acquisition and specialist training in all aspects of mineral resources development. The institute’s mandate among others is to provide skilled training for the Artisanal and Small-Scales mining operators. The DG/CE congratulated the participants for being among the lucky few that were selected to participate in the well-articulated short course training, he further advised them to pay rapt attention to the resource persons considering that it was the first time that such type of training has been organised for Artisanal Miners in the country. He reiterated the determination of the Federal Government to ensure that mining is moved from manual system to a more technological system that conforms to global best practices. Prof. Hassan thanked Hon. Kabiru Yahaya Klassique representing Anka/ Marafa Federal Constituency and Hon. Ahmed Muhammed Bukura representing Bukura/ Maradin Federal Constituency both in Zamfara State for sponsoring twenty youths from their constituencies for the maiden edition training in modern ways of mining. The DG/CE stated that the choice of Gidan Gonna Agro Chemical Nigeria Limited and A.A. Lawan Moda Investment Nigeria Limited as facilitators for the training program is in consonant with the mandate of Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geosciences (NIMG) to select competent contractors that has capacity to organized this type of training program for Nigerian Miners in modern methods that are in line with global best practices. He urged the Federal, States, Local Government and well- meaning Nigerians to take advantage of the Institute to revolutionarize the mining extractive industry to a more technologically inclined industry that will create more jobs, reduce unemployment, eradicate insecurity and reduce mortality in the mining industry and enhance the economy. In their separate remarks, the representatives of Hons. Kabiru Yahaya Klassique and Ahmed Muhammed Bukura thanked the DG/CE and the management of NIMG for providing a conducive environment for learning. They urged the Nigerian Institute of Mining and Geosciences (NIMG) to sustain the present move towards advancing the mining extractive industry to a more robust technology driven method that is capable of taking Nigeria to a more commercialized-recognized Mining Country. In his contribution, the training consultant, Alhaji Umar Khalid thanked the NIMG Management for giving his Consulting firm the opportunity to demonstrate expertize in the training program especially in Mining related fields. He advised the trainers that, with the training packages they would get within the 5 day, they would eventually become trainers in their domain. The Acting Deputy Director, Extension Services and Development of NIMG, Engr. Dalhatu Dikko thanked the DG/CE for his tireless efforts in bringing the institute to global standard through infrastructural and manpower development. He equally thanked the Honourable members from Zamfara State for chosen NIMG as the best institute to train the youths from their constituencies. Engr. Dikko called on the government to inject more funds into the institute so as to enable the institute train capable hands that can harness the fortunes and potentials in the mining Sector.