…says ‘we’ll fully support gov’s future aspiration’
…urges members to conduct LG poll with decorum The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Oyo North Senatorial District chapter, at the weekend, unanimously affirmed its continued loyalty and support to the Oyo State governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, stating that the party would “fully support his future aspirations.” This was as the party enjoined its members in the senatorial district to eschew politics of bitterness and to promote peace and harmony at all times, stating that only these could help to strengthen the party ahead of future general elections. A resolution signed by the senatorial chairman of the party, Alhaji Oluwakemi Waheed, indicated that the meeting, which was held at the Iseyin Town Hall, Iseyin, appreciated Governor Makinde’s leadership style and governance drive and the positive impact they are having on the people of the state. The meeting had in attendance the senatorial chairman of the party, local government party chairmen, chairmen of local governments and LCDAs and leaders from the 10 local government areas of the district and party leaders including Senator Gbenga Babalola, Chief Jacob Adetoro, Alhaji Raheem Dinojayo and Engr. Najeem Omirinde. Others were Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Hon. Adeniyi Farinto, Commissioner for Trade and Commerce, Hon. Niyi Adebisi, Commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Ojekunle Ojemuyiwa, Commissioner for Women Affairs, Hon. Fausat Joke Sanni and Hon. Samuel Ademola Adejumobi, Special Adviser, Legislative, among others. According to the resolution, the Oyo North PDP equally called on party members to conduct party processes and primaries leading to the forthcoming local government election with decorum and to put the interest of the party at heart at all times before, during and after the exercise. It admonished the party chapters in all the local governments to engage in effective crisis management in the build-up to the local government election. The party equally stated that Governor Makinde’s efforts have been endearing the PDP to the hearts of Oyo State residents, expressing satisfaction with the government presence in Oyo North Senatorial District far above what obtained in previous administrations. It listed the Moniya-Iseyin Road reconstruction, the siting of the Satellite Campus of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) in Iseyin, the ongoing dualisation of Saki Township Road, the location of the headquarter of Oyo State Agribusiness Development Agency (OYSADA) in Saki, the total reconstruction of Saki-Ogboro-Igboho road, the commissioned Saki Specialist Hospital, the Iseyin-Ogbomoso Road and Idiko-Ile-Ijio-Wasinmi Road already approved for reconstruction as the laudable efforts of the government in the senatorial district. The resolution read: “The meeting unanimously affirmed our continuous loyalty and support to His Excellency Governor Seyi Makinde at all times and
to fully support his future aspiration. “The meeting further enjoined party members in the Oyo North Senatorial District to eschew politics of bitterness and promote all times peace, love and harmony that can strengthen our great party and prepare for future general elections. “The leadership style and the governance drive of Governor Seyi Makinde are profoundly appreciated. This is premised on the positive impact on the people of the State, which are endearing our party to the hearts of the masses.” On the build-up to the local government election, the Oyo North PDP directed the party in each local government to engage in “As it is well known that politics is crisis management each Local Government is directed to engage in effective crisis management techniques that can ensure harmony and love amongst party members.” Those who sent apologies for not attending, the resolution stated, include the party chairman, Chief Omokunmi Mustapha, Hon. Mulikat Akande Adeola and Chief Saka Balogun.