WorldStage Newsonline– The West Africa Health Organisation (WAHO) says it will set up a coronavirus vaccine revolving fund in west Africa to ensure more funding for vaccination in the region. The Director General of WAHO, Prof. Standley Okolo, disclosed this on Friday in Abuja at an event to hand over critical medical materials to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) region. The  handover event was organised by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH on behalf of the German Government and the European Union. Okolo said that the revolving fund would provide technical cooperation to national immunisation programmes and to improve the regions’ COVID-19 vaccine demand planning and forecasting capacity. He added that the fund would also strengthen supply chain management and ensure financing and sustainability. He said “we are looking forward to setting up a vaccine revolving fund. As you all know, there will  always be a deficit in terms of the coverage of our population with the COVID-19 vaccine and that is why the Heads of States decided that we should set up the fund. “When established, the Heads of States will ask governments to contribute, invite partners to contribute, including indigenous private sector and use a multiplicity of sources to plug the gap. “Vaccinating 27 per cent through COVAX and another 20 per cent through others will not get us the 60 to 70 per cent population required to get herd immunity. This is the situation that we are facing now and this is one of the tasks that the president of ECOWAS and myself have been charged to set up. “We will do something about that within the next fortnight and come back to our partners for their support,” he explained. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, applauded the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit and the European Union for their generosity to the ECOWAS region “during this challenging time of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is not the first time your organisation is showing generosity to the region and this gesture is worthy of commendation. “WAHO has worked hard to tackle the considerable task of coordinating the entire process of bringing all parties together and ensuring timely delivery of medical supplies to member states.” Ehanire said that President Muhammadu Buhari, the ECOWAS COVID-19 Ministerial Coordinating Committee on Health Chair and the ECOWAS COVID-19 Champion, would ensure that the donated medical supplies were efficiently distributed to all intended recipients. The minister thanked all partners for their collective support and contributions in combatting the pandemic. Mr Damien Bishop, the Project Coordinator, Regional Programme Support to Pandemic Prevention in the ECOWAS Region (RPPP), GIZ Nigeria and ECOWAS, said the COVID-19 pandemic had continued to affect lives globally and population of the ECOWAS region. Bishop said that at GIZ Nigeria and ECOWAS, the Regional Programme Support to Pandemic Prevention in the ECOWAS Region (RPPP) was being implemented since 2016 on behalf of the German Government and the EU to support member states. The critical materials handed over included Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), equipment for Intensive Care Units (ICUs) such as oxygen compressors. The equipment were the first of two consignments of more to follow that would be handed over to the ECOWAS Commission for distribution to the 15 member states.