The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Zone 10, has revealed its target to reduce Road Traffic Cases (RTC) and Road Fatality Rate (RFR) by 15 and 20 per cent, respectively, this year. Mr Muhammad Husaini, the Zonal Commanding Officer, made the assertion at a news conference on Thursday in Sokoto. Husaini said the zone, comprising Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara States, would, on Monday, inaugurate a new operation called ‘Operation Winter’. “This is an operation to create more avenues where we will have safer roads and cover our target in reducing RTC and RFR across the zone. “Moreover, I want to happily disclose that the entire local governments under Zone 10 are fully covered with our officers working closely with other security agencies to ensure people’s safety,” he said. According to him, with an existing three sector commands, 18 units and eight outpost units, there is now a new unit in Tureta LGA of Sokoto state to enable quick response on accidents along the axis. The road safety boss further revealed that from Jan. 1, no fewer than 70 vehicles had been arrested within the zone for violating COVID-19 protocols. “The FRSC has continued to monitor proper compliance with all COVID-19 protocols by commuters and to ensure that the presidential order on the pandemic is strictly adhered to,” he said. He explained that personnel of the corps had been directed to continue to work closely with other security agencies in order to achieve the said objectives. Husaini also urged drivers and travellers to avoid all habitual acts of over speeding, overloading and packing people with animals or grains when travelling. Besides, he warned officers in the zone to avoid any act of malpractice, especially while on duty, emphasising that such acts would not be condoned. “We will ensure appropriate sanction if found wanting,” he warned. He appreciated the support and cooperation of stakeholders in the zone, particularly the state governors of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara as well as traditional rulers and transport unions, among others.