WorldStage Newsonline–  Unilever Nigeria Plc has announced the appointment of Mr Michael Ikpoki as an Independent non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February, 2021. In a notification at the Nigerian Stock Exchange, the “board warmly welcomes Mr Michael Ikpoki and wishes him success in his new role.” About Ikpoki Mr Michael Ikpoki is an acccomplished Multinational Business Executive and leader, lawyer by training, with over twenty four (24) years relevant African Telecommunications Industry Experience comprising of public sector experience in a National Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (Nigerian Communications Commission), business management experience in the MTN Group and telecommunications/ICT Advisory and Consulting experience in Africa. Specific Operational Industry experience include Policy & Regulatory Advisory/Management, Commercial Operations & Management, General Business Management, Strategic/C-Level & Country Leadership capabilities in very fast moving and intensely competitive telecommunications markets in Africa. Mr Ikpoki has demonstrated proven capability in successfully managing and growing telecommunications operations in some of the largest economies in Africa during his tenures as CEO of MTN Ghana and CEO of MTN Nigeria respectively between 2011 and 2015. In his Operational Senior leadership and CEO roles, he successfully deployed effective leadership to deliver concrete results. Mr Ikpoki now independently consults and serves as a resource person on Telco/ICT projects within Africa while adapting his experience to other related areas namely market entry advisory and leadership development. Mr Ikpoki is presently the CEO of Africa Context Advisory Partners, an Africa-focused business advisory company which provides business advisory services in Telecoms/ICT, market entry/growth particularly in ICT and Consumer-related Industries in West Africa. He also mentors CEOs/Senior leaders and speaks to select audiences on Telecoms/ICT, Leadership and Business in Africa. He is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of iFitness Centre Limited (A health and Fitness business/franchise).