The European Union (EU) and its Member States have welcomed the agreement by the Libyan Political Dialogue Forum (LPDF) on a transitional unified executive authority for Libya. “This is an important milestone in the Berlin Process and on the way to lead the country towards national elections to be held on 24 December 2021,” Josep Borrell, the EU High Representative said on Sunday in a statement on behalf of the Union. “We are ready to work with the new President of the Presidency Council, Mohammad Younes Menfi, and the new Prime Minister, Abdul Hamid Mohammed Dbeibah, and stress the need for the swift formation of a new, inclusive government that will work for national reconciliation and unification of the country,” read the statement made available to PANA. “We encourage the House of Representatives to vote on the LPDF outcomes according to the timeline agreed in the Road Map adopted by the LPDF in Tunis in November 2020,” it added. Since the Berlin Conference, Libya has made significant progress towards securing lasting peace and stability, including through the reopening of the energy sector, the nationwide ceasefire agreement of 23 October 2020, the roadmap for holding national elections in December 2021, and now the selection of a transitional unified executive authority. The EU High Representative commended the efforts and determination showed by the LPDF members and the team of the UN Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL) to reach a Libyan-led and Libyan-owned negotiated, inclusive political solution and create conditions for national unity, transitional justice, and reconciliation in the country. According to the statement, the EU and its Member States recognise the will expressed by the LPDF to remain engaged in supporting the timely implementation of the decisions achieved in Geneva. They also welcomed the determination to ensure a meaningful inclusion of women in the new government and encouraged their equal participation in the peace process. In addition, they urged all relevant Libyan stakeholders across the country, and all members of the international community to show strong resolve in supporting the transitional unified executive authority in the interest of the stabilisation of the country and national reconciliation. In this regard, the EU recalled its instrument of sanctions against possible spoilers. “Ensuring timely preparation for the national elections should now be the main priority, including the adoption of necessary electoral laws and its constitutional basis, the concrete implementation of all provisions of the October 23 ceasefire agreement and the necessary economic reforms, starting with the unification of all financial institutions. “The EU will be ready to support this process and urges all Libyan and international actors to do so in respect of Libya’s territorial integrity and national sovereignty,” it said. Furthermore, the EU has underlined the importance of effective implementation of the Ceasefire Agreement, respect for the UN arms embargo, and withdrawal of all foreign fighters and mercenaries in accordance with the UN Security Council Resolutions. “All foreign military intervention is unacceptable,” it added.