WorldStage Newsonline– Prof. Stephen Onah, Director/Chief Executive, National Mathematical Centre (NMC) on Wednesday called for effective collaboration among relevant stakeholders towards the development of Mathematical Sciences in the country. Onah made the call during a Stakeholders’ Virtual Meeting of Professors and Heads of Departments (HODs) of Mathematical Sciences from Nigerian Universities organised by NMC at Sheda, Kwali Area Council, Abuja. According to him, the aim of the meeting is for professors and HODs of Mathematical Sciences to cross-fertilise ideas and seek speedy solution to numerous challenges confronting research, teaching and learning of the subject in Nigerian universities, including NMC. “I have no doubt that with this type of forum, there is great future for our science and technology development and by extension, hope for a greater Nigeria. “The National Mathematical Centre as an Inter- University Centre of Mathematical Sciences has the unique role of inter-relating with all universities and other tertiary institutions. “The functions of the National Mathematical Centre as enshrined in the 2004 NMC Act could be broadly categorised into advanced research, training and high-level manpower development. “Talent hunt, human capacity development, outreach activities and instructional resources development, these we promised to pursue vigorously. “Therefore, I solicit for the stakeholders’ continuous suggestions towards the development of NMC and enhancement of the teaching and learning of mathematical sciences in Nigeria,” he reiterated. He also said that NMC should be accorded a pride of place in the Nigerian education system. Onah, however, appreciated the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu for the unwavering support towards the repositioning of the education sector and the development of Mathematical Sciences in Nigeria. Similarly, the Acting Coordinator, Mathematics Programme, NMC, Dr James Ajie, said that the essence of the meeting was for the stakeholders to  come up with solutions to challenges Nigeria universities were facing in the teaching and learning of Mathematical Sciences. Ajie noted that the programme was an annual event which usually had professors and HODs of Mathematics and Mathematical Sciences in attendance. He said that the centre expected about 75 universities across the country in the the virtual meeting, but only 45 universities participated. He, therefore, commended all the participants while encouraging others to always avail themselves the opportunity to benefit from the centres’ enriching initiatives.