WorldStage Newsonline– The Middle belt Forum has challenged the Governor of Gombe State, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya over his refusal to announce and confirm Dr Musa Idrish Maiyamba as the 16th Mai of Tangale. The President Middle belt Forum, Dr Bitrus Pogu while addressing newsmen in Abuja at the weekend alongside Secretary General of Tangale Community Development Association, Abuja branch, Mr Simon Brief, said that  Idrish Maiyamba was the choice winner of Tangale people, who won an election conducted kingmakers. He described the newly chosen Mai Tangale, Dr Maiyamba as a strong Christian and accused Governor Inuwa Yahaya of having  preference for another candidate who is a Muslim. He said on the 15th of February 2021, the Tangale Traditional Council of Kingmakers voted for their Choice to ascend to the throne of Mai Tangle according to the customary laws of the Tangale Nation. He said of the 18 contestants vetted and screened,  Dr. Musa Idrish Maiyamba emerged the winner  with five votes followed by  Alhaji Danladi Magaji and Alhaji Ahmed with two votes each. Pogu said there had been street protest and destruction of properties following the delay in announcement of Maiyamba as the winner of the election. The President Middle belt Forum therefore urged the governor to allow the will of the people to prevail in the choice of Mai Tangale irrespective of religion. He said, “We are gradually shifting from the law of the land which grants the kingmakers the power to make election and present the people’s choice. There is no religion tie to this struggle because the immediate Mai of Tangale was a Christian who got elected after a Muslim die. We have never had it this situation of Muslim and Christian fighting. “If the late Mai Tangale was a Christian and he worked with the governor, whether it is a Christian or Muslim the people want now, it is not the business of the governor to walk into tradition. It is the people’s tradition. If it is the population that matters, everybody knows the Tangale people are predominantly Christians, but even in Kathulgo the traditional ruler is a Muslim and they are living with him and the other parts of Tangale lands have traditional rulers, who are Muslims. “But these people decided to elect a Christian this time, what is the problem with that? It is not a political but traditional position.” He warned that any attempt to truncate the will of the people will be seriously resisted, saying, “we are ready and not a fighting community but when you are pushed to the wall you don’t have any way to escape rather than to push back. Secretary General of Tangale Community Development Association, Abuja branch, Mr Simon Brief, in his contribution called on the governor to do the needful by announcing Maiyamba as the new king having scored five out of the nine votes cast by kingmakers. Brief lamented that the governor’s recent actions appeared to relegate Christians to the background in the state. Also speaking, Elder state man and Gombe State Chairman of Middle Belt Forum, Keftin Amuga, said the governor’s action in sidelining Christians showed that he might be pursuing an Islamic agenda. He said, “From the feelers I have, I am very suspicious of the motive Governor Inuwa has against our people, because anything which has to do with our people, he tries to bring in an element of religion.”