WorldStage Newsonline– Africa Democratic Congress (ADC) has called for an internal audit of incessant by-elections conduct by INEC, saying the cost is too heavy for the states, political parties and citizens. The National Chairman, ADC, Chief Ralphs Nwosu told newsmen on Friday that another budget guzzling area that should concern Political Parties, INEC and the National Assembly is the state of elections in Nigeria and the effect on the economy According to him “if anything untoward happens to our democracy, the National Assembly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Political Parties will be the most hit as having happened in our not too distant history. “We must therefore be wary. Recently INEC has been on the offensive to create more polling stations in addition to the 120,000, in spite of the Nigeria budget limitations and economic struggles. INEC and the National Assembly has shown apathy to due diligence and efficacious financial management. The ration and rationale of election expenses to the GDP of the country are mindboggling and sparks sign of irresponsibility. “Many of our State Governors run their States from their expensive mansions in Dudai, London or States in the US. At the national level, Legislators have become deal making and self-serving conspirators, whose salaries and allowances are far above that of their counterparts in any part of the world. “To show that we have made good progress, in 2018, ADC emerged as a party of choice after Due Diligence scrutiny conducted by eminent persons and leaders of civil societies in the country. Within the last 4months various Nigerian youth and women organizational leaders have openly endorsed ADC, and have integrated their structures into the struggle. “ He noted that Nigerians in the diaspora had adopted to embrace ADC and started the formation of the largest global diaspora network with the formation of ADC Diaspora Network  (ADC-DN). “Also 23 political parties have agreed to party with ADC because our DNA appeals to them. Nevertheless, as no true and lasting foundation can be without challenges, ADC has become the number one target of the so-called parties in power. The positive has come as one to champion the cause and together, we shall prevail,” he said. He noted further that Nigeria had become more divided than ever before, saying that the leaders at the National and state levels had learned the art of designing and borrowing framework to source for money across the world to no end, while they left the country and future generations in perpetual debts.