The Nigeria Immigration Service has deployed the Migration Information Data Analysis System (MIDAS) to various commands of the service to ease operational activities. Comptroller of Immigration of the Seme Command, Mr Bernard Zipamor, said this on Friday, and has commended Mr Muhammed Babandede, Comptroller General of the Service for the feat. Zipamor gave the commendation during a courtesy visit by executive members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Lagos Council, led by the Chairman, Mr Adeleye Ajayi, to him in Seme. He said that the NIS had the sole responsibility to control movement of persons in and out of the country. The comptroller appreciated the efforts of Lagos State Ministry of Health in assisting the Division in the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said there was, however, the need for health facilities at the Seme Command as a result of the pandemic. “We are supposed to have facilities for sample collection and testing when travellers are returning,” he said. He thanked the team for the visit and pledged to partner and work with the NUJ Lagos Council. Ajayi, on his part, commended the command for its giant strides in border surveillance and patrol, which yielded tremendous results. He praised the NIS for leveraging the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) to achieve quality service delivery. The NUJ chairman also lauded the Service for its professional website which had made application for international passports easier for intending travellers. He reaffirmed his commitment to facilitating training for journalists in Lagos Council. Ajayi said that a seminar on fake news would be organised for members within the next few weeks. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other officials of NUJ Lagos State Council with the chairman included Mrs Biola Beckley, the Vice Chairman; Mr Tunde Olalere, the Secretary; and Mr Philip Nwosu, the Assistant Secretary. Oluwakemi Ishola, Ex. Officio; and Innocent Anaba, the Financial Secretary; were also among those present.